# Applications and Careers in Data Science
> In the first lesson, you learn about the power of data science applications and how organizations leverage this power to drive business goals, improve efficiency, make predictions, and even save lives. You also reviewed the process you will follow as a data scientist to help your organization accomplish these ends. In the second lesson, you investigate what companies seek in a competent, experienced data scientist. You will learn how to position yourself to get hired as a data scientist. Amidst the diverse backgrounds from which data scientists emerge, you identify the qualities they share and skills that consistently set them apart from other data-related roles. You will complete a peer-reviewed final project by looking at a job posting for data scientist and identifying commonalities between the job and what you learned in this course. You will also walk through a case study, where you learn about Sarah and her data science journey.
# Learning Objectives
- Describe the contents of a data science job posting.
- Describe the application of data science in healthcare.
- Explain how companies can start on their data science journey.
- Describe some of the ways in which data is generated by consumers.
- Describe how businesses such as Netflix, Amazon, UPS, Google, and Apple are using data generated by their consumers and employees.
- Compare some of the qualities that differentiate data scientists from qualities of other data science professionals.
- Articulate the purpose of the final deliverable of a data science project and the role of storytelling in the final deliverable.
- Describe what the final report of a Data Science project should cover and how it should be structured for best results.
- Demonstrate your understanding of data science by articulating what data scientists do and what a data science report contains.
## Data Science Application Domains
- Lesson Overview
- How Should Companies Get Started in Data Science?
- Old Problems, New Data Science Solutions
- Applications of Data Science
- How Data Science is Saving Lives
- The Final Deliverable
- **Practice Quiz:** The Final Deliverable (100%)
- Lesson Summary: Data Science Application Domains
- **Practice Quiz:** Data Science Application Domains (100%)
- Glossary: Data Science Application Domains
- **Graded Quiz:** Data Science Application Domains (100%)

## Careers and Recruiting in Data Science
- Lesson Overview
- How Can Someone Become a Data Scientist?
- Recruiting for Data Science
- Careers in Data Science
- Importance of Mathematics and Statistics for Data Science
- The Report Structure
- **Practice Quiz:** The Report Structure (100%)
- Lesson Summary: Careers and Recruiting in Data Science
- **Practice Quiz:** Careers and Recruiting in Data Science (100%)
- Glossary: Careers and Recruiting in Data Science
- **Graded Quiz:** Careers and Recruiting in Data Science (100%)
- Summary: Careers and Recruiting in Data Science

## Final Assignment
- A Roadmap to Your Data Science Journey
- Final Assignment: Case Study
- **Graded Quiz:** Based on Case Study (80%)
- Explore Data Science Job Listings

## Final Exam
- **Graded Assignment** (100%)
